=== c:\\Users\\araba\\Downloads\\Presentation -BOCRA WEBSITE DEVELOPMENT HACKTHON (1).pdf ===
pages 7
--- page 1 ---
BOCRA WEBSITE DEVELOPMENT HACKTHON
BRIEFING SESSION
23 MARCH 2026Botswana Communications Regulatory Authority


--- page 2 ---
ABOUT BOCRA & MANDATE
1. Mandate of Botswana Communications Regulatory Authority 
(BOCRA)
2. Regulates telecommunications, broadcasting, postal & internet 
services
3. Mandate includes licensing, compliance enforcement, and spectrum 
management
4. Protects consumers and ensures fair competition
5. Primary digital platform: www.bocra.org.bw
6. Questions and discussions

--- page 3 ---
PROBLEM STATEMENT
●Current website has limited usability and navigation
●Inadequate accessibility and search capabilities
●Limited analytics, automation, and security features
●Result: fragmented services and inefficient user experience


--- page 4 ---
Deliverables and Judging Criteria
Required Project Deliverables
Participants need to submit a prototype, source 
code, technical proposal, walkthrough video, 
and README file for their project.
Evaluation Criteria
Projects are judged on functionality, user 
experience, innovation, security, scalability, and 
relevance to real-world needs.
Practical and Implementable Solutions
Emphasis is placed on solutions that are 
practical and can be implemented to address 
real-world challenges effectively.

--- page 5 ---
Key Timeline Highlights
Week-long Hacking Challenge
Participants engage in hacking activities from 20th to 27th March, 
showcasing innovative skills and creativity.
Finalists Announcement
The top five finalists will be announced on 30th March, marking a 
key moment in the competition.
Presentations by Finalists
On 31st March, finalists present their solutions, either in person or 
virtually, demonstrating their achievements.


--- page 6 ---
QUESTION & ANSWERS


--- page 7 ---
Contact Us
•ipt@bocra.org.bw
•www.bocra.org.bw


=== c:\\Users\\araba\\Downloads\\BOCRA Brand Proposal.pdf ===
pages 52
--- page 1 ---
.... 
BOCRA  


--- page 2 ---
.... Objective of this Presentation   
Share our Strategy Framework  
Discussion of our understanding of what you 
require  
Audiences for Communications  

--- page 3 ---
.... Our Integrated Business Approach   
3 
Communication Objectives  
 Consumer Insights  
 Business Objectives  
Below -the –line 
 
•Procurement  
•Project management  
•Event management  
•Activations  
•Production  
•Creative  
Promotions  
 
•Conceptualisation  
•Activations 
management  
•Production  
•Creative  
Above -the-line 
 
•Advertising  
•Television  
•Radio  
•Print 
Sponsorship/CSI  
 
•Strategy  
•Selection  
•Management  
•Activation  
 
PR 
 
•Stakeholder relations  
•Press releases  
•Newsletters  
•Internal 
communication  
•Crisis communication 
management  
•Media relations 
training  
 
Integrated Marketing  
Umbrella Theme  
 

--- page 4 ---
.... 
WHAT ARE THE BUSINESS 
CHALLENGES THAT WE ARE TRYING 
TO SOLVE?  
 


--- page 5 ---
.... Challenges…  
The greatest challenges facing BOCRA from a communications 
standpoint are stakeholder engagement and education.  
Due to the breadth of its stakeholder base, a one -size fits all 
approach is hardly an option.  
As is the case with most major organizational transitions a great 
deal of engagement needs to occur to ensure ubiquitous 
stakeholder buy -in. 
Stakeholders need to understand BOCRA’s role, use, relevance 
and importance to them as well as be made aware of 
why/how/where/when they can/are able to engage with BOCRA.  
 

--- page 6 ---
.... Basis of our strategy is to….  
Determine Campaign Effectiveness.  
Determine our Target Audiences in Detail  
Determine the Message  
Determine the Media Strategy  
 

--- page 7 ---
.... 
LET’S GET INTO IT…  


--- page 8 ---
.... 
HOW WILL WE MEASURE THE 
SUCCESS OF THE CAMPAIGN?   
 

--- page 9 ---
.... 
These  metrics need to be put in place (between Client and Agency) to  determine 
the measure by which campaign effectiveness will be evaluated, be it, elevated 
brand awareness, increased brand recall, an increase in the utilisation of 
BOCRA’s engagement platforms.  
It goes without saying that, REACH is an important consideration due to BOCRA’s 
national mandate. The campaign needs to resonate with Batswana across the 
length and breadth of the country.  
Due to the complexity of the BOCRA mandate, getting the campaign to resonate 
effectively amongst remote, rural demographics will represent major success.  
A baseline for current levels of brand awareness and recall (BTA brand pre -
transition) needs to be established if success metrics  are to be implemented.  
 

--- page 10 ---
.... 
WHO OUR AUDIENCE IS AND HOW 
THEY LIVE WITH MEDIA AND DIGEST 
BRANDS?  
 


--- page 11 ---
.... 
11  
 
 
Integrated Comms  High level view of engagement  
Est of BOCRA  
Communications with  
External Stakeholders  Influence  
Communications with Internal Stakeholders  
Effectiveness / Efficiency  Communications with  
Customers and Consumers  Growth/Future  

--- page 12 ---
.... Audiences…  
Our audience is extremely broad and needs to be 
engaged with on a number of different levels, with 
the level of engagement varying amongst various 
stakeholder groups  
 
BOCRA’s stakeholders can be categorized as 
Internal, Regulators/Shareholder  and “customers” 
- Industry and the general public/consumers  
 

--- page 13 ---
.... Audiences…  
While it can not be said that certain stakeholder groups 
take precedence over others the level of engagement will 
vary in content and media channel utilization in order to 
communicate appropriately  
 
The key is create a “golden thread” that ensures that the 
varied nature of communications is woven together into a 
clearly identifiable blanket that is BOCRA – (distinctively 
different voices and instruments but one band ). 
 

--- page 14 ---
.... Internal Audiences  
Transition from the BTA to BOCRA 
represents change and as with all 
organizational change, a certain amount of 
uncertainty and insecurity amongst staff is 
to be expected  
Unmanaged, staff anxiety can snowball 
into full scale sedition, leading to a myriad 
of undesirable issues that will make the 
transition more challenging than it would 
otherwise be.  
 
•Staff 
•Management,  
• Unions  
• Internal 
suppliers  

--- page 15 ---
.... Internal Audiences… cont  
 
Of chief concern amongst internal audiences 
is the answer to question, “Is my job 
secure?” . 
Internal audiences and their attitude to the 
transition hold one of the most important 
keys to whether or not the transition is a 
successful one 
 

--- page 16 ---
.... External Influencers (Regulators, Shareholder, Media)  
BOCRA’s mandate is one of immense 
national significance, as a result the 
involvement of government is a given  
We cannot overstate the importance of 
getting shareholder buy-in for the 
communications campaign prior to roll out.  
In many instances government (through MP’s 
and councilors) are able to smoothen out the 
transition by engaging with communities from 
an informed position.  
 
•Shareholder  
•Minister/PS/Dir
ector  
•PEEPA  
• Media  
• Suppliers  

--- page 17 ---
.... 
An informed Influencer  is more equipped to counter mass 
media/media misinformation and speculation.  
The input of the leadership can also be extremely useful in 
allowing us to make vital tweaks to the structure of our 
communications that will enable messaging to resonate 
better with audiences.  
The relevant Ministries, Minister, Permanent Secretary 
need to understand our communications approach (the 
golden thread) in order to respond queries and 
speculation.  
 
 External Influencers (Regulators, Shareholder, Media)  

--- page 18 ---
.... 
The general public is more technologically savvy and 
at the very least have access to mobile phones . 
Mobile technology has evolved to point where even 
the most basic of devices is WAP enabled.  
The advancement mobile technology has made it 
easier for individuals to determine who and where 
they get their news and information.  
The challenge for us is not to interrupt audiences 
with communications but create communications 
content that integrates into audience behaviour . 
 External Audiences (regulator and shareholder)  

--- page 19 ---
.... External Audiences (Customers and General Public)  
Often the public have a rough/general idea of what 
an institution/organization is mandated to do but are 
unaware of its full mandate  
This often leads to frustration when they need to 
engage with the organization and discover that their 
particular issue is either beyond the organization’s 
scope or has been channeled incorrectly.  
It must be accepted that certain individuals will go 
through their entire lives and never require the 
services of BOCRA but amongst this same 
demographic are individuals that will hold a 
perception (rightly/wrongly) of what the organization 
is mandated to do.  
 
•Key sectors 
players  
 
•General public  
 

--- page 20 ---
.... 
The media are often the biggest influencers of public 
opinion and perception.  
The printed press and private radio stations are perceived 
by many to be the most objective sources of news and 
information.  
Government owned media is often perceived as providing 
a less objective slant to the “issues of day”.  
With the explosion of social media platforms in recent 
times, personal opinion and word of mouth have the ability 
to affect mass opinion more than ever before.  
 External Audiences (Customers and General Public)  

--- page 21 ---
.... 
HOW THE BRAND NEEDS TO 
BEHAVE TO ACHIEVE SUCCESS   
 What w0uld success mean to BOCRA?  


--- page 22 ---
.... Success will look like…  
In the absence of documented research to the contrary, it is safe to 
assume that the mandate of the BTA did not really resonate with the 
majority of Batswana  
Apart from the National SIM – Card registration process a few years 
ago, the BTA has never had a huge above -the-line communications 
presence.  
While the BTA has been in and out of the news in the interim, they have 
never involved in anything that quite resonated in the hearts and minds 
of Batswana (which, is not a bad thing by any means).  
The immanent transition of the BTA to BOCRA dictates that the low-key 
nature of the organization needs to change briefly.  
 
 

--- page 23 ---
.... Success will look like…  
A delicate balance still needs to be struck between the Brand’s 
corporate demeanor and relevant mass communication  
We need to establish a clear and readily identifiable “Realm of 
Relevance” for the brand  
What is this realm? It is a territory, that all stakeholder groups 
can readily associate or trace back to the brand  
Essentially, we want to establish an identity for the brand that is 
consistently amongst the first few things that come to mind 
when audiences think/hear about the brand.  

--- page 24 ---
.... Success will look like…  
Think – Toyota (reliability), Apple (innovative 
technology design), Choppies  (affordable grocery for 
the masses ) 
Now think BOCRA…..  
Naturally, there needs to be a connection between 
what audience perception and brand behavior  
As a regulator, BOCRA serves as the authority on 
the rules of engagement across all aspects of 
communications  
 

--- page 25 ---
.... Distilling Brand Behaviour  
As has already been mentioned, engagement will vary 
depending on audience  
The brand needs to behave in ways that are relevant to 
its key audiences  
For higher -level and industry audiences, there is a need 
for BOCRA to maintain an extremely corporate image.  
High level and Industry players will be well versed in the 
technical complexities of BOCRA’s mandate and have a 
greater appreciation for it due to the direct impact it has 
on their operations.  
 
 
 
 
 

--- page 26 ---
.... Distilling Brand Behaviour  cont… 
The general public on the other hand are not as well versed in 
the BOCRA mandate, they need for the Brand to behave in a 
manner than can relate with 
It is important to note that the difference in brand behavior should 
not detract from consistency in key messaging.  
All audience groups need to receive the same message, even if 
the mode with which it is communicated to them is different  
Therefore we have developed a single -minded proposition that 
will become the anchor for all our communication.  
 

--- page 27 ---
.... 
IMAGINE A WORLD WITHOUT ORDER.  The Single Minded Proposition  


--- page 28 ---
.... A world without order?...  
The single -minded proposition aims to liken the 
role of BOCRA to that of an Umpire.  
Like an Umpire, BOCRA seeks to ensure that 
the “game” is played within certain parameters, 
with the umpire stepping in when “players” stray 
beyond these parameters  
The analogy will  be brought to life as part of the 
roll-out of the campaign  
Imagine a world without order.  

--- page 29 ---
.... 
Roll out Plan  
BOCRA  


--- page 30 ---
.... CAMPAIGN OBJECTIVES & APPROACH  
To educate  and make  stakeholders  aware  of the BOCRA  
mandate . 
Key to our efforts  will be creating  and developing  communications  that 
are able to leverage /promote  a cognitive  connection  between  the 
BOCRA  mandate  and “real-world”  applications  of the mandate . 
Secondly,  there  is a need  to clearly  define  the different  aspects  
of what  BOCRA  has been  mandated  to do and how it affects  the 
lives/operations  of our audience  groups . 
 

--- page 31 ---
.... 
& 
MINDS  HEARTS  
EMOTIONAL RESONANCE  
BOCRA UNDERSTAND WHAT IS 
IMPORTANT TO ME. THEY 
HAVE MY BEST INTERESTS AT 
HEART. I’M PROUD TO BE 
ASSOCIATED WITH BOCRA.  COGNITIVE RESONANCE  
I UNDERSTAND THE BOCRA 
MANDATE. I KNOW WHY BOCRA IS 
IMPORTANT. I KNOW HOW TO 
CONTACT THEM.  
  IN ORDER TO ACHIVE OUR OBJECTIVES WE WILL  NEED TO 
CAPTURE : 

--- page 32 ---
.... 
 
HEARTS – Emotional Resonance  
 
 There is a need to make it clear from the beginning of the campaign that 
the protagonist of the campaign is not the newly re -branded entity and its 
corporate look and feel but rather the nation, its people, communities and 
how BOCRA seeks to better their lives 
 
 The subject matter/content of our communications should clearly 
communicate a message that seeks to promote a clear understanding of 
BOCRA’s role and relevance amongst the audience groups targeted.  
 
 How are Hearts and Minds Captured? : 

--- page 33 ---
.... 
 
MINDS – Cognitive Resonance  
 
While  the campaign  primarily  seeks  to focus  on the role and relevance  of BOCRA,  audience  groups  
need  to understand  the more  technical  and operational  aspects  of the organization  more  fully 
A concerted  effort  needs  to be made  in engaging  with influential  stakeholder  groups . There  is also a 
need,  to communicate  to the public  about  the various  sectors/aspects  of the communications  
spectrum  that BOCRA  regulates . A combination  of a structured  stakeholder  engagement  program  and 
mass  media  communications  will be utilized  to drive  this key messaging  home . 
  
The HEARTS  and MINDS  approach  seeks  to deliver  a unifying  platform  that builds  synergy,  allowing  for 
seamless  cross  promotion  as well as private  and public  sector  alignment . The question  now becomes ; 
 
JUST HOW DO WE  ACHIEVE THIS?  
 How are Hearts and Minds Captured? : 

--- page 34 ---
.... 
EARLY 
ADOPTERS  OPINION 
LEADERS  LATE 
ADOPTERS  LAGGARDS  CAMPAIGN ADOPTION 
LEVELS  
SEEDING 
STAGE  NATIONAL CAMPAIGN 
STAGE   
 
  
 
THE CAMPAIGN PATH  
January - March  March - May     June - August     
SIX MONTHS  


--- page 35 ---
.... THE CAMPAIGN COMMUNICATIONS 
PLAN  
In collaboration  with the marketing  and communications  team  at BTA/BOCRA,  we will develop  and 
roll out a communications  plan that intends  to deliver  the outcomes  as detailed . 
ONE  
 Educating  public  opinion  leaders  and facilitating  a greater  appreciation  for the BOCRA  mandate . 
This stage  will feature  stakeholder  briefings/workshops  as well as the development  of the visual  
elements  of the brand  and support  collateral .  
 
  
TWO  
 
The second phase will involve the actual national campaign and will be driven by mass media 
communication across a variety of media channels .  
 
   
  

--- page 36 ---
.... 
NATIONAL ROAD SHOW CAMPAIGN  
 
As we have mentioned before there is need to take the BOCRA 
mandate to the people. The most effective way of doing this, in our 
experience, is to conduct a nationwide road show tour 
 
The key is not merely to show up, put on a show and leave for the next 
town but leave a lasting legacy in the various communities visited that 
people can look at and remember BOCRA  
 
The way this will be done is having three separate teams on the road at 
any given time.  
 
 

--- page 37 ---
.... 
The first team (engagement team) will travel ahead of the main 
road-show. Their role will be to engage with community leaders 
(diKgosi , diKgosana  as well as influential community leaders 
such as the DC, etc). The purpose of this team will be to first 
inform them of the impending roadshow , what it seeks to achieve 
as well as address any particular issues that the leadership feels 
need addressing prior to or as part of the show.  
 
The second team will be the main road show team. This would 
typically consist of BOCRA representatives as well as 
edutainment (industrial theater, etc). This will be the primary 
mass engagement platform.  

--- page 38 ---
.... 
Once the road show has been complete a “Legacy 
Project” will be launched in the community as a 
permanent reminder to the community of BOCRA’s role 
and relevance to them.  
 
 Lastly , a third team will arrive within days of the “main” 
road show’s departure. The role of this team is to do a 
post activation assessment that will assess the 
effectiveness of the main activation and whether or not 
the messaging resonated with the community . 
 

--- page 39 ---
.... 
WHAT BOCRA  COULD LOOK LIKE…  

--- page 40 ---
.... Working Logo  
•Bold Font  
 
•Charcoal in colour  (rich Platinum feel)  
 
•Tag line meant to help unpack what 
BOCRA is in simple terms… “an Umpire 
for Comms  Industries”.  
 
•Four Dots for four sectors. Colours  
inspired by RGB and CMYK colour  
systems used in Printing and 
Broadcasting  
 
•Dots are also used to show a 
connection. We believe this would be a 
good icon to work with.  
 
•Single Minded Proposition……   
BOCRA  
Imagine a world without order  Fair play, fair game  

--- page 41 ---
.... Stationary  
•Constant use of the the “Connectivity 
Web”  
 
•Four Primary Colours  to Rep the 
different aspects of BOCRA  
 
•Colours  based on RGB and CMYK 
Base colours  (used in Broadcasting 
and Printing)  
 
•Connectivity Symbols in 
demonstrating their mode of 
Communication  
 
•Simple feel in a complex world  


--- page 42 ---
.... Vehicles  
•Constant use of the the “Connectivity 
Web”  
 
•We would like for BOCRA Vehicles to 
be easy to recognize and contribute 
to a brand development. Neat, 
Orderly and Consistent  
 
 
 
 

--- page 43 ---
.... Other Collateral  
•Constant use of the the “Connectivity 
Web”  
 
•Use of Colour  Codes for the Different 
Sectors  
 
 
 


--- page 44 ---
.... Images at BOCRA  
Bold technology images  
Happy People using 
communications services (not 
always tech Post too)  
Images that show chaos to 
order – Baskets, spectrum 
lighting etc 
Puzzles to be used too, order 
and the role that every one can 
play in the bigger picture…  


--- page 45 ---
.... 
TACTICS  Imagine a world with out order unpacked…  

--- page 46 ---
.... 
 
Due to the fact that we are most likely not going to be able to 
reach everyone, message amplification will be critical in getting 
the message out as far as possible.  
 
PRINT, TELEVISION AND RADIO ADVERTISING  Distilling Brand Behaviour  cont… 

--- page 47 ---
.... 
 
An above the line campaign anchored around the single -minded 
proposition – (Imagine a World without Order) will be rolled out  
 
The various executions will each present a scenario where, in 
the absence of rules and clearly established parameters, 
everyday scenarios that we take for granted can quickly 
descend into chaos  
Soccer Game  
Choir  
Chess game  
 
  Distilling Brand Behaviour  cont… 

--- page 48 ---
.... 
LEVERAGING OF OFF INDUSTRY BOCRA REGULATES  
Upon launch, BOCRA could leverage off the nationwide 
footprint of the organizations they regulate by having 
them host information points that hold pertinent 
information about BOCRA and its mandate.  
 Distilling Brand Behaviour  cont… 

--- page 49 ---
.... Additional Ideas/Tactics  
Outsurance  has a campaign in SA that sponsors traffic directors 
as part of CSI. BOCRA could do a similar thing. The link would 
be they regulate traffic to avoid chaos and fair play.  
 
During Road Shows we bring Industrial Theater to the 
audiences. Easy to show chaos and order with actors.  
 
The BOCRA Mandate to be placed in prominent points at sector 
player businesses. E.g. Posters in the Post Office  
 
Puzzles are a great way to show Chaos to Order. BOCRA could 
sponsor a national Puzzle completion comp.  
Nice link to every piece has a role to play (i.e. stakeholders, 
communities, industry etc) 


--- page 50 ---
.... 
WHERE TO FROM HERE.  What is the plan?  


--- page 51 ---
.... 
Activities	
Initial	strategy	meeting
Brand	manual	creation	and	evaluation
Lobbying	with	stakeholders	&	industry	(national	&international)
Info	Sessions	and	workshops		with	industry	and	stakeholders
Briefings	with	media	Fact	sheets	developed	and	deployed
Comms	plan	for	internal	and	external	stakeholders
Crisis	Comms	Strat	dev
Crisis	Comms	workshop
Launch	brand
Monthly	creative	articles
Media	Monitoring	(daily	clippings	&	monthly	report)
Advertising
Public	Awareness	Initiatives	
Road	Shows
Message	Maintenance	–	knowledge	centers
Quarterly	industry	reviews
Radio	interviews	every	2	months
TV	interviews
Staff	CSI	Activities
Stakeholder	engagementsFIRST	PHASE
SECOND	PHASEQuarter	1 Quarter	2 Quarter	3 Quarter	4


--- page 52 ---
.... 
Thank you  
Imagine a world without order. Imagine Botswana without BOCRA  


